Hi we didn't this lecture we going to learn about the subject.
Cold gesture recognizes.
So we will be able to recognize the gestures that users do when they use their phone like swiping or
tapping on the phone.
So we're going gonna see have to do that.
So let me create this project and called his gesture recognizes.
Okay.
And list.
Let's just go with swift and do not check switch UI or card data.
So let me create this on my guess complete folder.
Okay.
And in this project I'm actually going to finish what we have started in our first app.
Remember in the first app we have brought in an image inside of an Image view and we have created that
button.
And then the user clicked on that button image we changed.
So we're going to do the exact same thing in here.
But right now instead of a button we want the user to click on the Image view itself.
OK.
And then the image will change.
And also I'm going to make it in a way that I if user taps on the Image view one more time the user
will see the previous image one more time.
So the image will be constantly changing when user taps on this image.
So we're going to do that and we will not use a button for that.
So far we have been writing our actions the inside of buttons.
So right now we're going to see how to write some new actions.
So let me go to Google and for usual I'm going to go for Metallica or James Hetfield OK let me go for
James Hetfield In case you don't know he is from Metallica so I'm going to save this image to my downloads
and I'm also going to go for another picture which is Lars Ulrich.
OK.
So just find two images that you want to change and display in your app.
So this is in my case.
James and Lars.
So let me go to my downloads and let me make these images somewhat readable like James Stock JP last
up JP.
OK.
I'm going to take both of these pictures.
I'm going to put those pictures in my SS folder so that's it.
So we're now ready to get these images to display in our image view inside of our we've controller.
So let me just take an image view from the library and drag and drop from here.
OK.
And we're going to make this a little bit bigger so we can see it better.
We're not even going to have a button over here so we can make it bigger It doesn't matter.
So let me start with James first and that's it.
That's our image view.
OK.
So I'm going to create a label as low and in this label I'm going to display the name of James.
And when I click to change the James the label will change it as well.
So the image will turn to Lars and the label will also turn to.
Laughs So for a starter I'm going to make this James Hetfield so make this into a central way like this.
And that's it.
That's our app.
We don't need anything else.
So I'm going to go to my controller dot swift in and another editor and I'm going to drag and drop this
image of you in here like this.
OK.
I'm doing this fast because we have done it so many times right.
So you can do it on your own.
So this is my label and we're done for this.
So let me close these down and before we forget let's give some constraints.
Let's click here and say reset to suggest that constraints and then we can go to coding section.
Now what we want to do we want to create a set up in which view recognize when a user taps on the image.
Right.
So we have defined our image view in here as an outlet not as an action.
So we do actions in buttons but in regular reviews we do not do that.
Instead we create something called gesture recognizes.
So let me first say Image view dot is user interaction enabled.
So this defines whether we can better a user can actually interact with this you are not.
So this has to be true.
If this is false then Vedder I just as a gesture recognize or not.
It won't work.
So this can be clickable this can be terrible before we create a tap recognized.
OK so I'm going to create my gesture recognized like this.
I'm going to of course I sign it to be a variable and I'm going to say you I tap gesture recognized.
So as you can see we have other options as well.
But this is a recognized that looks for a single or multiple taps.
So I can decide what will happen when a user taps on this.
So if you open the parenthesis it will ask me for a target and then action just like we did before.
Remember.
So remember what was the target.
So target is.
So let me open the documentation actually so you can see where the target is in here as well.
So Target is D class or D place that the selector function is going to be called from.
Okay.
In our case this target is actually the view controller itself.
Because why.
Because we're going to create an action here.
So we're going to actually write a function and re going to select that function in this action.
And this function will be called from view controller.
So I'm going to write something targeted and I'm going to say hash selector in order to give my objective
c method over here.
So how do we do that remember Objective C func.
Okay and then you write your own function.
So in my function I want to change the picture.
Okay so I'm going to name it change pick and open curly braces.
So right now I can come here and say this selector is change pick.
So this is not very different than what we have seen when we deal that you a button creation with code.
Right.
So the target is self and the action is this selector.
So now we have to assign this gesture recognizing here to our Image view.
So I'm going to say add gesture recognize and it will ask me for a one and I will give you what we have
created.
Now they are connected and while they were I right here like tapped will be happening when I tap on
that Image view.
So first let me try this.
Let me run this in our simulator and then we're going to tap on the picture to see if we can see the
tapped log in our logs.
Here we go.
So tap on James Hetfield and as you can see we see the tap logs here.
So I can't just change the picture inside of my function.
So let me close these down and come over here and you know how to change it right.
That is the first thing that we have done in this course Image view that image UI image and it will
ask us for a name and they have the other options as well but where are you going to go for names.
And we are going to say laughs because that's the name that we have saved here.
So this will display the last when it's clicked.
So that's good.
I am going to change my labeled text to Lars Ulrich as well.
So this is good.
This is going to work.
When I tap on the picture I will see the image going to Lars.
Yes.
And the name is going to be Lars salary.
So what I want next is when I click on this image view one more time it will revert back to James and
I if I click one more time it will go back to Lars so back and forth back and forth.
So I had to come up with that algorithm that does that.
And in fact to you and you have all the information to do that.
Right now you just have to be creative in the stage.
So I suggest you pose the video and try to do it on your own.
Yeah.
That can be done in various ways you can check to see if current label is less Larry and you can change
accordingly.
But the classiest ways to do that is to create a billion.
Okay.
So I'm going to create a boolean in which I will define whether it's James right now or Lars.
So my billion is going to be is James and this is initially going to be true because we start with James
and I'm going to start by controlling if James is true if is James It's true that I'm going to do this
I'm going to change the image view to be Lars okay and I'm going to change my label Tax that tax to
be Lars Hilary but if it's not true else I'm going to do the exact same thing in reverse order so I'm
going to do James here and for tax I'm going to say James Hatfield.
So that's great right.
And this won't even work because you will see why in a minute.
So let me try this.
So if I click on this it will be Lars but if I click on this one more time it won't go back to James.
Why.
Maybe you think that you forgot to say is James false in here.
And that's correct.
The ad to say is James false in here.
And actually we can't.
We have to say he's James true in here as well in order to let the swift that has been changed but that's
not the real problem.
So if I click on this you will see that it will go to Lars.
But again this won't go back to James.
So why does this happen.
If you go back to your coats you will see that we are starting with Barr is James e true.
So when I start a function like this every time I click on this button it will create a variable called
is James and it will assign this value to be true.
So even though I later changed this to be false if I do it in like this it will just make is James e
true every time I click on that button.
So this will be never executed as it warns me.
So what I want to do I want to create this is James outside of this function.
OK.
I'm just going to initialize this in here so I can actually reach is James from we did load and I can
actually reach is James from here as well right now in the change pic I can just change is James to
falls and is James to true whenever I want.
So if I run this one more time I will see that when I click on Lars it will turn back to James and this
is what I have been looking for so far so great.
We have learnt about gesture recognizes regrowing to stop here and within the next lecture we are going
to learn about something cold timer's.